*λ* ≥ *ョ* ∈ Ø *≡*

------

Comparative meaning

Q1: why two structures: DegP-AP and DegP-DegP-AP

A1: -what do these two layers of DegP respectively stand for? [感性介绍概念]

 -why higher DegP is necessary and lower DegP is optional? - when do we need the lower DegP?  

//



the lexical entry of gradable adjectives which express meaning is given in (0), where we take the gradable adjective *gao*(tall) as an example:

(0) [[tall]] = *λ*d*λ*x. [height(x)≥d]    <d,<e,t>> 

## Positivity 

(1) 小明 [si] [高]。si=si (licensed by 很/非常；syntax:[spec, DegP] semantics: modify) 

Firstly, let us look at the sentence shown in (1). Literaturally, it is classified into the positive form. In this paper, we identify this sentence as positivity ushered in the comparative meaning, which is significantly from previous analyses. The reason for why we classify this sentence as expressing kind of comparative meaning is that the positive judgment of this sentence is based on a comparison between the height of *John* and a value of height considered as the standard by people in mind, which needs not to be indicated or inferred from the context. In fact, this standard value is encoded into the comparative morpheme in positivity sentences. It deserves some notice that positity is different from superiority with implict standard, in that the implictit standard can be inferred from the context rather than encoded by the comparative morpheme itself. The contrast between the sentences in (2a) and (2b) can well reveal this point, where the implicit standard is represented as Pro, which can be replaced with the corresponding expression from the context. The meaning of (2a) and (2b) is exaclty the same, which can also demonstrate the correctness of identifying the implicit standard as Pro. In contrst, we cannot reconstruct the explicit standard from the context for Positivity which explains for the Illegitimacy of the sentence in (3a).

(1) John hen gao.

(2) (a) John he Mary shui gao ?

​			- John Pro gao.

(b) John he Mary shui gao ?

​         - John bi Mary gao.

(3) (a) *John hen Pro gao. 

​	 (b) John hen gao.

Now, let us look at thte syntactic structure of the Positivity head. According to the assumption about one functional layer or two functional layers on the beginning of this section, given no appearance of DiffP in Positivity, one layer of DegP above AP is considered as the correct syntactic structure for Positivity, which is illustrated as below:

(4) John [~DegP~ hen si [~AP~ gao]]. 	

[/Tree]

The null nature of DegP head should be licensed by the corresponding expression, which is undertaken by the obligatory *hen* in this sentence, hence occupies the specifier position of DegP. The obligatoriness of *hen*-like degree adverbs (*feichang*, *ting*, etc.) can be reflected by the ungrammaticality of the sentence in (5).

(5) *John gao. 

However, what should be pointed out is that *hen* is not prohibited from dropping in other sentences involving positivity. As shown by sentences (6a-c), *hen*-like degree adverbs are allowed to drop:

(6) (a) John bu gao.

​	 (b) John gao ma?

​	 (c) John gao, Mary ai.

We will not go into the reasons why sentences like above allow the dropping of "hen"deeply because they are not canonical sentences, which go beyond the scope of this research. In brief, the sentences above involve other elements related to degree, for example, negative adverb, sentence final particles, focus constructions, etc., which can also lisence the null degree head. (/Ref)

Now let us turn to the semantics of Positivity.  (/Ref) represents the lexical entry of the degree head in Positivity as (6.5), where *d~stnd~* refers to the value of corresponding dimension considered as the standard by people in mind. With the standard value encoded, the degree head si of Positivity has both evaluative function and type-shift function (/Ref). Given the equivalence relation proven by me which is illustrated in (6.5b), this paper simplifies the lexical entry of the degree head as (7a).

(6.5) (a) [[si]] = λGλx. *ョ*d[G(x,d) & d=d~stnd~]    <d,<e,t>,<e,t>>

​		(b) *ョ*d[G(x,d) & d=d~stnd~] is equivalent to G(x,d~stnd~) where G(x,d) = G-degree(x) ≥ d .....

  With the lexical entry of the gradable adjective *tall* given in (0), we can successfully figure out the meaning of the sentence in (1) following the semantic calculation illustrated in (7b-c), which is paraphrases as (7d):

(7) (a) [[si]] = λGλx. [G(x,d~stnd~)]    <d,<e,t>,<e,t>>

​     (b) [[si gao]] = λGλx. [G(x,d~stnd~)] ([[gao]])

​      					= λGλx. [G(x,d~stnd~)] (*λ*d'*λ*x'. [height(x')≥d'])

​                          =λx. [height(x)≥d~stnd~]    <<e,t>

​	 (c) [[John si gao]] = λx. [height(x)≥d~stnd~] (John)

​							      = height(John)≥d~stnd~    <t>

​	 (d) (7c) is paraphrased as "the height of John exceeds the standard height considered by people in mind"

[很为什么不是head，怎么把很的含义整合进去......]

//



## Equality 等比句

//



## Superiority 差比句

1. (a) 小明 [<u>比1.7米</u> **si~1,1~**] [**高**]。 **si~1,1~**=si~1,1~，更，还

   ~~(b) 小明 [<u>Pro</u> **si~1,2~**] [**高**]。~~

   (c) 小明 [<u>比1.7米</u> **si~1,1~**] [mu 2厘米] [**高**]。mu=mu, 出，了

2. (a) 小明 [<u>比小红</u> **si~2,1~**] [**高**]。**si~2,1~**=si~2,1~，更，还

   ~~(b) 小明 [<u>Pro</u> **si~2,2~**] [**高**]。          **si~2,1~**=*si~2,1~，更，还~~

   (c) 小明 [<u>比小红</u> **si~2,1~**] [mu 2厘米] [**高**]。mu=mu, 出，了

3. ==(a) 小明 [<u>在一班中</u> **si~3,1~**] [**高**]。si~3,1~=*si~3,1~，最==

   ==~~(b) 小明 [<u>Pro</u> **si~3,2~**] [**高**]。si~3,1~=*si~3,1~，最~~==

   ==(c) 小明 [<u>在一班中</u> **si~3,1~**] [mu 2厘米] [**高**]。si~3,1~=*si~3,1~，最==

   without DiffP, DegP-AP

   According to the assumption in the beginnig of this section, Superiority sentences without DiffP are assumed to project only one functional layer above AP, taking "DegP-AP" as their syntactic structure.
   
   
   
   Here we take a look at sentences in (1a-c) which are all classified as Superiority sentences of comparative meaning in this paper. Please note that sentence (1a) is classified as superlative form in the literature, which is different from the classification method taken in this paper:
   
   ==(1) (a) John bi 1.7 mi gao.==
   
   ​	 ==(b) John bi Mary gao.==
   
   ​	 ==(c) John zai yi ban zhong zui gao.==
   
   Although types of the standard in these three sentences above are different, they are all classified as  Superioty sentences expressing comparative meaning in that they all implicate some kind of comparison made along the dimension of scale denoted by the gradable adjective between the comparee and another element serving as the standard in the comparison, and the difference between degree along the dimension denoted by the gradable adjective of the comparee and of the standard is not equal to zero. Types of element serving as the standard in the comparison can be variable: a degree denoted by direct degree expression in (2a), an individual denoted by NP(DP) in (2b), a set of individuals denoted by 集合名词 in (2c).
   
   
   
   For the syntactic part, no matter what type of the standard is taken, the general structure is almost the same. For achieving a unifying analysis, we use si~n~ to represent for the degree head in higher DegP, in which the index *n* is to distinguish variants of the degree head. The synatactic structure of Superiority without DiffP is illustrated in (2a), with clear account of the index of si~n~ given in (2b):
   
   (2) (a) [~IP~ [CompareeP] [~I'~ I^0^ [... [[~DegP~ [StndP] [~Deg'~ si~n~ [~AP~ [~A'~ A^0^]]]]]],   n ∈ {1, 2, 3}
   
   [/Tree]
   
   ​	(b) (i) for si~n~, n=1 iff the standard is a degree;
   
   ​	    (ii) for si~n~, n=2 iff the standard is an individual;
   
   ​	    (iii) for si~n~, n=3 iff the standard is a set of individuals;
   
   
   
    Some more words perhaps should be said about instantiation of the degree head. When the standard is a degree or an individual, the degree morpheme could be a null morpheme Ø，could have phonetic realization as *geng*(more), *hai*(still),etc, as shown in (3a). It should be pointed out the null funcitonal morpheme  always only has the neutral meaning, while its co-existent counterpart with phonetic realizations should have some minor distinct meaning, otherwise it is redudant to use  different morphemes to undertake the single one function as well as express exactly the same meaning. Some  (/Ref) argue that *geng*(more), *hai*(still) are degree adverbs in Mandarin rather than degree morphemes. I do not agree with this perspective. Criteria for distinguishing functional morphemes and lexical morphemes are ...(/Ref) Besides, in the evironment where the standard is implicit and there is no other potential licesors for the degree head, an overt degree head is obligatorily required, as shown in (3b). Please note that Pro cannot license a null functional morpheme (/Ref) and why sentence in (2a) of last section allows the null degree head is due to some other reason (...?). In fact, when the standard is implicit, it is *geng*-like morphemes that indicates the Superiority meaning of a sentence. However, when comes to the standard as a set of individuals, whether the standard is explicit or implicit, the degree morpheme should consistently realized as *zui*(most), which hosts the neutral meaning, as showned by (4)：
   
   (3)    (a) John bi Mary (geng/hai) gao.
   
   ​		(b) John Pro *(geng) gao. 
   
   (4)    (a) John 在一班中*（最）高。
   
   ​		(b) John Pro *（最）高。
   
   When the degree head is a null morpheme Ø or a bound morpheme with phonetic realization like *geng*(more) and *zui*(most), the gradable adjective moves up to combine with the degree head (/Ref). The comparee denoted by NP(DP) is base generated in the specifier of AP, where no Case can be assigned. Therefore the comparee moves to the specifier of the IP to be assigned Nominative Case. [做一点semantic calculation意思一下]
   
   
   
   Now let us turn to the semantic part. According to Abney's DegP hypothesis, the functional projection DegP in Superiority sentences consistenly serves to bind the extra arugment  *d* in the lexical entry of gradable adjectives by introducing the standard in comparative meaning. In terms of the function of the head of DegP, we make a significant  difference from previous scholars. The majority of previous analyses (/Ref) considers the comparative morpheme which occupies the head position of DegP bear the crucial "greater than" meaning in making comparison. However, the lexical entry of gradable adjectives shown in (0) which is repeated here as (5.0), has already included ==the partial ordering relation== which is established between the comparee and the standard along the dimension of scale denoted by the gradable adjective, which conveys the "greater than" meaning. Hence it is quite redundant to appoint another morpheme to denote the "greater than" meaning.  Here we assume that the functional head of DegP severs to usher in the standard as well as adjust the the method of absorbing the standard accordingly so that it be incorporated into the degree argument of the gradable. As a result, the semantic type and lexical entry of the head of DegP are variable corresponding to distinct standard types.
   
     (0) [[tall]] = *λ*d*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ d]    <d,<e,t>> 
   
   
   
    Semantics of these three variants si~1~, si~2~ and si~3~ are elablorated as below: 
   
   Semantic calculations in (5) corresponds to the sentence in (1a) where the standard is a degree typed *d*. The lexical entry of the degree head si~1~ is given in (5a). The output propositon is parahrased as (5e), which derives the meaning of the sentence correctly.
   
   (5) (a) [[si~1~]] = *λ*G*λ*d*λ*x. [G(x,d)]    <<d,<e,t>>,<d,<e,t>>>
   
   ​	 (b) [[si~1~ gao]] = *λ*G*λ*d*λ*x. [G(x,d)] ([[gao]])
   
   ​					      = *λ*G*λ*d*λ*x. [G(x,d)] (*λ*d'*λ*x'. [height(x') ≥ d'])
   
   ​						  = *λ*d*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ d]    <d,<e,t>>
   
   ​	 (c) [[bi 1.7m si~1~ gao]] = *λ*d*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ d] ([[bi 1.7m]]) (/注释：bi 的lexical entry)
   
   ​    								 =  *λ*d*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ d] (1.7m)
   
   ​									 = *λ*x. [height(x) ≥ 1.7m]    <e,t>
   
   ​	 (d) [[John bi 1.7m si~1~ gao]] = *λ*x. [height(x) ≥ 1.7m] (John)
   
   ​                                                = height(John) ≥ 1.7m    <t>
   
   ​	 (e) (5d) is paraphrased as "the height of John exceeds 1.7 metres"
   
   
   
   Semantic calculations in (6) corresponds to the sentence in (1b) where the standard is an individual typed *e*. The lexical entry of the degree head si~2~ is given in (6a). The output propositon is parahrased as (6e), which derives the meaning of the sentence correctly.
   
   ==(6) (a) [[si~2~]] = *λ*G*λ*y*λ*x. [G(x,max d~2~(G(y, d~2~)))]    <<d,<e,t>>,<e,<e,t>>> [可能有问题]==
   
   ​	 (b) [[si~2~ gao]] = *λ*G*λ*y*λ*x. [G(x,max d~2~(G(y, d~2~)))]  ([[gao]])
   
   ​				    	  = *λ*G*λ*y*λ*x. [G(x,max d~2~(G(y, d~2~)))]  (*λ*d'*λ*x'. [height(x') ≥ d'])
   
   ​						  = *λ*y*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(y) ≥ d~2~)))]    <e,<e,t>>
   
   ​	 (c) [[bi Mary si~2~ gao]] = *λ*y*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(y) ≥ d~2~)))] ([[bi Mary]]) 
   
   ​    								   =  *λ*y*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(y) ≥ d~2~)))] (Mary)
   
   ​									    = *λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(Mary) ≥ d~2~)]    <e,t>
   
   ​	 (d) [[John bi Mary si~2~ gao]] = *λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(Mary) ≥ d~2~)] (John)
   
   ​                                                = height(John) ≥ max d~2~(height(Mary) ≥ d~2~)    <t>
   
   ​	 ==(d') (6d) *≡* height(John) ≥ max d~2~(height(Mary) ≥ d~2~)    <t>==
   
   ​	  (e) (6d) is paraphrased as "the height of John exceeds the height of Mary"
   
   
   
   Semantic calculations in (7) corresponds to the sentence in (1c) where the standard is set of individual typed *<e,t>*. The lexical entry of the degree head si~3~ is given in (7a). The output propositon is parahrased as (7e), which derives the meaning of the sentence correctly.
   
   ==(7) (a) [[si~3~]] = *λ*G*λ*C*λ*x. [G(x,max d~2~(G(C, d~2~)))]    <<d,<e,t>>,<<e,t>,<e,t>>> [可能有问题]   x∈C==
   
   ​	 (b) [[si~3~ gao]] = *λ*G*λ*C*λ*x. [G(x,max d~2~(G(C, d~2~)))]  ([[gao]])
   
   ​					      = *λ*G*λ*C*λ*x. [G(x,max d~2~(G(C, d~2~)))]  (*λ*d'*λ*x'. [height(x') ≥ d'])
   
   ​						  = *λ*C*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(C) ≥ d~2~)))]    <<e,t>,<e,t>>
   
   ​	 (c) [[zai yi ban Zhong si~3~ gao]] = *λ*C*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(C) ≥ d~2~)))] ([[zai yi ban zhong]]) 
   
   ​    								   =  *λ*C*λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(C) ≥ d~2~)))] (yi ban)
   
   ​									    = *λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(yi ban) ≥ d~2~)]    <e,t>
   
   ​	 (d) [[John zai yi ban Zhong si~3~ gao]] = *λ*x. [height(x) ≥ max d~2~(height(yi ban) ≥ d~2~)] (John)
   
   ​                                                = height(John) ≥ max d~2~(height(yi ban) ≥ d~2~)    <t>
   
   ​	==(d') (7d) ≡== 
   
   ​	 ==(e) (7d) is paraphrased as "the height of John exceeds or equal to the  maximum height of all students in Class one"==
   
   
   
   with DiffP, DegP-DegP-AP
   
   Based on the assumption illustrated in the beginnig of this section, Superiority sentences with DiffP own two functional layers above AP, taking "DegP-DegP-AP" as their syntactic structure. Examples are shown in (8):
   
   
   
   (8) (a) John bi 1.7 mi gao 2 limi. 
   
   ​     (b) John bi Mary gao 2 limi.
   
   
   
   Superiority sentences with overt DiffP expression need an additional DegP to host this DiifP, which indicates the difference between the value of the standard and the comparee along the dimension of scale denoted by the gradable adjective. Hence, the functional head of the additional lower DegP serves to introduce this DiffP. As metioned above, distinct from the obligatory projection of the higher DegP, this lower DegP projects iff DiffP is overtly expressed and DiffP is not equal to zero. Please note that the ungrammaticality of the sentence in (9a) can be explained by the DiffP which is equal to zero. In fact, the meaning of (9a) can be well expressed by another kind of construction with no DiffP named Equality, as shown in (9b). Details on Equality sentences like (9b) will be illustrated in the next subsection.
   
   (9) (a) *John bi Mary gao ling limi. 
   
   ​	 (b) John he Mary yiyang gao.
   
   [...填入章前解释它什么不是constantly project的那些话]
   
   
   
   Now let us look at the syntactic structure of  Superiority sentneces with DiffP. no matter what type of the standard is taken, the general structure is almost the same. The only difference from Superiority without DiffP is that Superiority with DiffP needs an additional projection DegP, of which the specifier position is occupied by DiffP and the head is represented as mu. The syntactic struction of Superiority with DiffP is show in (10):
   
   (10) (a) [~IP~ [CompareeP] [~I'~ I^0^ [... [~DegP~ [StndP] [~Deg'~ si~n~ [~DegP~ [DiffP] [~Deg'~ mu [~AP~ [~A'~ A^0^]]]]]],   n ∈ {1, 2, 3}
   
   ​		[\Tree]
   
   ​	(b) (i) for si~n~, n=1 iff the standard is a degree;
   
   ​	    (ii) for si~n~, n=2 iff the standard is an individual;
   
   ​	    (iii) for si~n~, n=3 iff the standard is a set of individuals;
   
   Continuous head movements are involved. The head of AP first moves upwards to combine with the head of lower DegP, which is instantiated as a null morpheme Ø or a bound morpheme with phonetic realization such as *chu*(exceed), to form a compound, and then moves together to further combine with the head of the higher DegP when it is instantiated as a bound morpheme. Given that the specifier of AP is not a position to which Case can be assigned, the comparee denoted by NP(CP) moves to the specifier of TP in order to obtain its Nominative Case.
   
   There is an alternative solution which inverse the hierarchy of the lower DegP and AP, whcih can be briefly represented as "DegP-AP-DegP", supported by many scholars (/Ref). This structure can also derive out the correct linear order of the sentence. We illustrate this structure as below (The structure shown in (11) is slightly different from the original version. Here we do not care about unrelated technical details but just focus on the general structure of the hierarchy of the three layers, i.e., two DegPs and one AP), where AP take the lower DegP as its complement:
   
   (11) [~IP~ [CompareeP] [~I'~ I^0^ [... [~DegP~ [StndP] [~Deg'~ si [~AP~ [~A'~ [A^0^ [~DegP~ [~Deg'~ mu [DiffP]]]]]
   
   In spite of the correct linear order derived, (/Ref) has argued that the direction of head movements in the syntactic structure shown in (11) is actually impossible. He claims that a functional head is an incorporated element rather than an incoporating element, giving rise to the impossibility of the movement from a functional dgree head to a lexical adjective head. (/this ref) elimate the alternative "DegP-AP-DegP" solution from a view of lexicon-syntax, while I propse another piece of evidence for elimating the "DegP-AP-DeP" analysis from the perspective of formal semantics, which will be illustratied immediately below.
   
   
   
   Now let us turn to semantic part of Superiority sentences with DiffP. The semantic interpretation of the higher DegP remains the same as that of Superiority sentences without DiffP, so we will not illustrate it in detail again. For the lower DegP, in this paper we assume that it undertake the mere function of measuring the difference between the value of the comparee and the value of  the standard along the dimension of scale denoted by the gradable adjective. It should be pointed out that this difference is expressed in the form of the absolute value for the reason that this difference itself indicates no ordering relation between the two values input into the comparative construction.  The ordering relarion is encoded in the lexical entry of gradable adjectives,  indicated neither by the head of higher DegP (which serves merely to usher in the standard) nor by the head of lower DegP (which serves merely to introduce the absolute value of the difference between the two values compared). 
   
   Most of  previous studied are inclined to appoint too heavy semantic function to one of the degree head and as a result make the semantic function of the other degree head marginal and transparent. What is worse, the "greater than" meaning encoded in the lexcial entry of gradable adjective is seized by a degree head which should not have been in charge of indicating the ordering relation between the comparee and the standard. In addition, the transfer of the "greater than" meaning from gradable adjectives to the degree head would give rise to  wrong reading of sentences made out of gradable adjectives with DiffP. Here we illustrate this fatal disadvantage with an instance from von stechow (/ref)...
   
   
   
   This clear division of labor in terms of the semantic meaning bore by each component is crucial for the whole analysis and this perspective is also significantly different from previous analyses. 
   
   Based on above analyses... my solution of the head of lower DegP is ...
   
   
   
   Semantics:
   
   -advantage of my lexical entry of [head, (lower)DegP] compared with previous analyses
   
   -==extreme== 		
   
   -semantic calculations
   
   -why superlative fails to take a DiffP   (c) *John zai yi ban zhong zui gao 2 limi. 
   
   -why DegP-DegP-AP not DegP-AP-DegP

​		Variants of DiffP (exact DiffP; vague DiffP: 一点，很多,etc.);





